[MUSIC].
>> Douglas Crockford: We have no
pointers in a lot of languages,
we haven't been Java we
have in the JavaScript.
And they're terrible because they
result in null pointer exceptions.
Almost seems like the design
of Java was optimized for
the generation of null pointer exceptions.
And null pointers are like the worst
bug they have to track down because
at the point of the error there's
nothing there, its absence, it's void.
It's not there's something there that's
wrong it's there is nothing there, and
you go [SOUND].
And usually what it's caused by is
you didn't do a null pointer check.
Because the language barfs when
a null pointer is missing or
when a pointer is null, and
you just want to put an if around it.
If it's null then don't do that,
and you just want to not do that.
And so you're constantly having to go
through your code finding places where you
didn't check for null and
saying don't do that.
Which is sort of a waste of time, but
that's what the language requires.
So the Monad guys found
a solution to this.
They call it the maybe monad.
It works sort of like NaN.
You remember NaN is a thing that
represents a non-number thing.
So if you divide zero by zero you get NaN,
instead of an exception.
And that turns out to be a good thing,
because it doesn't disrupt the pipeline.
And, at the end, you can look, it's NaN,
forget it, we didn't wanna do it anyway.
It's better than having to put an IF
around every division to make sure that
it doesn't end up thrilling.
We can do a similar kind of thing for
null, right?
And that's called the Maybe No Monad.
So we're gonna extend our
macroid again to allow for that.
So monacroid now take a modifier function.
And at the last step of the units
construction, if it sees that
there is a modifier function available,
it will simply call it.
Passing in the MONAD and
the value that the MONAD was created with.
So that's a small change.
So let's look at how we
would use that material.
We gonna create a maybe = MONAD,
by calling the macroid,
and passing in this function.
This function will take the MONAD and
the value.
And if the value is no where undefined,
It will set a property on
the monad saying this is null just so that
people can look at it you know what it is.
And it will replace the bind method
with a different bind method
that does nothing except
return the null monad.
It will not try to call the function that
it was called with or do anything else.
It just does nothing,
essentially it returns NaN.
It's returning a null monad.
So I can do this now,
I can make a maybe monad passing it null,
so this is now a null monad.
And when I try to call bind on it,
nothing happens, no error is generated.
So with this you can have an application
with no null checks anywhere.
The only null check in
the whole system is this one
that only happens at the time when
you're creating a null monad.
All the rest of the time,
your code just works.
If null ever gets into the system
anywhere, you just let it go and
it's nice.
So that's one of the applications
that these Haskell guys figured out.
And we can do it.
There's nothing to
prevent us from doing it.
It's pretty cool.
So now I'm going to completely change
topics and talk about something else.
And that's something else is concurrency.
Concurrency is where we want to
have multiple things happening at
the same time.
And computers are getting better at it,
but programming languages are not.
And programmers generally are not.
Managing having lots of stuff
going on at the same time is hard.
The most popular technique for
dealing with that right now, is threads.
And that's bad, because threads are evil.
Threads are easy to get started with,
but they're really hard to reason about.
And so systems can very
quickly get very complicated,
get,
>> Douglas Crockford: Subject to race
conditions, and deadlocks,
and really bad stuff.
Threads are bad.
In my opinion, the biggest design
error in Java was that it couldn't
decide if it wanted to be an application
language or a systems language.
So as a result of that confusion,
it exposed threads to the application
level, which I think was bad.
So threads at the systems level
are a necessary evil, but
at the application level,
they're just evil.
And should never be employed there.
But reliability is so
important we don't want to compromise it
by being dependent on a concurrency
mechanism which is unsafe.
And that's what threads are.
So the alternative is
turn-based programming.
Which is what we have in the browser,
is what we have in Nodejs.
It's becoming a much more popular
way of doing concurrent systems.
The turn-based system,
the main application is single-threaded,
which means it is race free,
and it is deadlock free.
So there's a whole lot of stuff that
could go bad that cannot go bad,
that turns out to be a good thing.
But like with everything
there are trade-offs.
And the trade off with turn based
processing is you must obey always the law
of turns, which says, never wait,
never block, finish fast.
So at the beginning of every turn,
something starts and no other turn
can begin until that one ends.
So it can't stop and wait for
something else to happen because it's
gonna hold up everything that follows it.
So with turn base system, it could be
event driven, which is how the browser
works, it could be message driven, which
is the way node works to our equivalent.
But you don't have threads
because threads cause races and
you don't have mutual exclusion because
mutual exclusion causes deadlock.
So it's how browsers work.
It's how most UI frameworks work.
There's servers that do that now
including Elko for Java, Twisted for
Python and Nodejs for JavaScript.
Now even with this, some forms of
asynchronosity can be hard to manage,
particularly if you have
a number of events,
which are serially
dependent on each other.
Doing that asynchronously
gets complicated.
But the naive approach is to
have nested event handlers.
And that turns out to be very brittle and
hard to maintain, so
that's not a good pattern.